SOURCE: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/options-for-changing-aws-kms-encryption-key-for-amazon-rds-databases/
FETCHED: 2026-07-16
TOPIC: AWS Database Blog — Options for changing AWS KMS encryption key for Amazon RDS databases
(fetched via summarization tool; quotes below are as returned by the fetch, verbatim per the tool)

---

"Amazon RDS doesn't currently support in-place conversion of unencrypted instances to encrypted
instances, even with a managed blue/green deployment approach."

"A downside is that it requires a downtime period of at least 30 minutes, depending on the size
of your database."

The article presents the snapshot-and-restore method (create snapshot -> copy snapshot with new
KMS key -> restore from copied snapshot -> repoint application) as the option for workloads that
can tolerate downtime, and separately presents lower-downtime options for production.

---

SOURCE: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/manage_update-encryption-key.html
FETCHED: 2026-07-16
TOPIC: AWS Secrets Manager — Change the encryption key for a secret

---

You can change the encryption key for your secret. [...] When you change the encryption key,
Secrets Manager re-encrypts AWSCURRENT, AWSPENDING, and AWSPREVIOUS versions with the new key. To
avoid locking you out of the secret, Secrets Manager keeps all existing versions encrypted with
the previous key. That means you can decrypt AWSCURRENT, AWSPENDING, and AWSPREVIOUS versions with
the previous key or the new key. If you don't have kms:Decrypt permission to the previous key,
when you change the encryption key, Secrets Manager can't decrypt the secret versions to
re-encrypt them. In this case, the existing versions are not re-encrypted.

To make it so AWSCURRENT can only be decrypted by the new encryption key, create a new version of
the secret with the new key.

If you deactivate the previous encryption key, you will not be able to decrypt any secret versions
except AWSCURRENT, AWSPENDING, and AWSPREVIOUS. If you have other labelled secret versions that
you want to retain access to, you need to recreate those versions with the new encryption key.

AWS CLI example:
aws secretsmanager update-secret --secret-id MyTestSecret --kms-key-id arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:123456789012:key/EXAMPLE1-90ab-cdef-fedc-ba987EXAMPLE

---

SOURCE: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ssm/put-parameter.html
FETCHED: 2026-07-16
TOPIC: AWS CLI reference — ssm put-parameter (--overwrite, --key-id)

---

--overwrite: "Overwrite an existing parameter. The default value is false."

--key-id: "The Key Management Service (KMS) ID that you want to use to encrypt a parameter. Use a
custom key for better security. Required for parameters that use the SecureString data type. If
you don't specify a key ID, the system uses the default key associated with your Amazon Web
Services account, which is not as secure as using a custom key."

NOTE: this CLI reference page does not explicitly document changing the KMS key of an existing
parameter. The mechanism (re-running put-parameter with --overwrite and a new --key-id, which
triggers a fresh Encrypt call per the SecureString encryption workflow documented in doc_3.txt)
is inferred from the documented Encrypt/PutParameter mechanics, not stated by AWS as an explicit
"rekey" operation. Flagged as inferred, not an AWS-stated guarantee.
